Registering Hong Kong Financial Products on Public Blockchains: A
Hybrid Approach to Token Issuance


Blockchain and financial products are radically changing the nature of
financing.  However, the full potential of blockchain for issuing
financial products has not been fully realized.

Thus far the issuance
and settlement of financial products has been characterized by two
approaches.  One is the "code-only" approach in which possession of a
wallet is ownership.  The other is a "private blockchain"i approach in
which settlement is under taken among private actors.


Code-Only Approach

* theft and loss

* corporate governance

* public policy 

* dispute resolution

* cash liquidity value

* inability to connect with legacy systems


Private blockchain

* high cost of setup

* requires that companies work through intermediaries

* incompatible systems


-----------

In this paper we propose a hybrid approach in which a token based
financial instrument is linked to the legacy financial system via the
Hong Kong common law legal system.  We note that the approach we are
taking does not require that the token issuance system involve
businesses or securities that are issued in Hong Kong.

\begin{The Hong Kong Legal System}

Under the "one country, two systems" policy, the Special
Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China

The legal system of Hong Kong is based on English common law, which
allows legal disputes to be adjudicated in a framework which is
familar to legal experts throughout the world.  The Hong Kong judicial
system has a strong reputation of being impartial and efficient when
it comes to adjudicating commercial disputes, and Hong Kong also has a
very extensive network of private arbitration panels which can resolve
disputes quickly, cheaply, and fairly.

In addition to a favourable legal environment, Hong Kong has a
favourable environment for securities regulation and taxation.  With
respect to securities regulation and taxation, Hong Kong takes a
"territorial approach" by which securities which are not actively
marketed in Hong Kong are not subject to local regulation, and
business activities which occur outside of Hong Kong are not taxed.
These factors allow a token which is intended for use outside of Hong
Kong to take advantage of Hong Kong's legal system without being
subject to securities regulation or taxation.

\section{Tokens as Bookkeeping mechanism}

In the framework that we have proposed, a public blockchain serves
only as a bookkeeping mechanism, and the entries on the public ledger
serve only to record changes in legal ownership.  Because the ledger
serves only as bookkeepping mechanism, the entries on the ledger serve
only as evidence that a change in ownership has taken place, and if
the ledger entries change as a result of theft or accident, no actual
change in ownership will have taken place.

Our mechanism does not depend on a specific implementation of
blockchain, and is sufficiently general such that any public
blockchain with immutable message passing can be used to implement are
system.

\section{Failure modes}

Our system begins with a legal entity that is formed under Hong Kong
law.  This legal entity can be a for-profit company limited by shares,
a non-profit limited by guarantee, or a trust.  The legal entity would
have three wallets associated with it.

token creation wallet - This wallet will hold newly created tokens,
and the legal entity will have the authority to create new tokens
within this wallet

identity wallet - Messages to this wallet will be used to identify the
holder of the wallet

authorization wallet - Messages from this wallet will be used to
authorize a wallet to receive tokens or to send tokens.

burn notice wallet - Messages from this wallet will be used to force
tokens to be sent to the burn wallet.

burn wallet - This wallet will contain tokens that have been burned.

In a typical use case a token holder will create a wallet, and then
send a registration message to the identity wallet.  This message will
register the wallet to a particular user.  The message to register
identity need only be known by the user or by the legal entity.


\section{Forced Token Transfers}

Our system allows for mandatory transfers of tokens.  This can be used
not only to recover tokens in case of theft of loss, but to also to
execute legal processes such as foreclosure, asset recovery, or to
execute a will.

1. The administrator sends a message from the burn notice wallet to
the wallet.  This will force a transfer of the tokens from the wallet
to the burn wallet.

2. The administrator creates new tokens in the token creation wallet
and sends these tokens to the appropriate wallet.

All forced token transfers will result in the tokens being delivered
to the burn wallet, thereby clearly marking in the ledger that this was






We emphasize that the system is used only to record information about
transfers but does not in itself reflect a legal transfer.  Should the
system become compromised, the actual ownership of the instruments does
not change, and it merely because sufficient for the blockchain to
record enough information to allow the ownership of the instruments to
be reconsturcted.  In a situation where there is dispute over the
legal situation, at that point, the situation would be referred to
arbitration or the Hong Kong legal system to resolve.

\section{Legal Box}



In our design we have specificied the tech

We propose to create a "legal box" which consists of a trust.  The
trust would be governed by a trust agreement which appoints a trust
administrator and requires that the trust administrator administer the
trust in the interest of the token holds.  The trust can hold any
piece of property on behalf of the token holders.

This common "legal box" allows any asset to be tokenized.  Stocks,
bonds, gold, diamonds, real estate, can be placed into the standard
legal box.

We note that under some circumstances the resulting structure would
become subject to Hong Kong securities regulation.  For example, if
one were to put stocks and bonds into the legal box and have an
investment adviser with the power to buy and sell the contents of the
box, this would become a collective investment scheme that would be
subject to Hong Kong securities regulation.  However, even in these
situations, having a standardized legal container would greatly reduce
the cost of creating a collective investment scheme.  Furthermore,
once the structure is standardized and automated, the necessary
paperwork to make the container regulatory compliant.

