HKDX Coin
CNHX Coin

Proposal:

Create two coins.  One is backed by the Hong Kong dollar.  The other
will be backed by Renminbi on deposit in Hong Kong.

Who would be interested in this?

1) Hedge funds and VC's
1a) They need a reliable way of settling payments throughout the world
1b) Right now it is impossible to hedge CNH risk or develop
CNH/HKD-based products because of a lack of a settlement mechanism.
Current settlement mechanism require government-to-government
negotiations and the creation of settlement mechanisms which can take
years.  The lack of a settlement mechanism makes it impossible for
overseas investors to create CNH/HKD denominated products.
1c) Methods to automate back office systems and due dilgence.  A fund
can cryptographically verify that it has funds under control, and
automate settlement and reconcilation

2) ICO's need
2a) a stable unit of exchange to receive funds.  Using ethereum
to onboard or off-board funds creates volatility in ICO worl
2b) a method of storing value that bypasses banks
2c) a way of transfering stable currencies via smart contracts.  

3) Hong Kong businesses need:
3a) A way of storing funds that allows one to operate without an
HK bank account

4) Hong Kong bitcoin exchanges need:
4a) A way of pooling liquidity and a mechanism to conduct
interexchange transmission

5) Banks need:
5a) A way of getting this technology out.  All of the major banks have
developed this settlement technology, but they have been unable to
deploy for regulatory reasons.  A HK based token system will be
subject to regulation only by HKMA, and once it is operational, it can
be more easily adapted by the banks than developing internal systems

6) Hong Kong needs:
6a) A way of promoting the HK dollar.  Having the HKD being used
as the standard currency for raising money through ICO's will
create a pool of liquidity that will promote HK.  Once ICO's use
the HKD as the basis for their activities, this will encourage
them to use HK as a banking center.
6b) A way of promoting Renminbi products.  The problem with RMB
denominated products is that an asset manager in most places simply
cannot deal settle in RMB.  A Wall Street investment fund may love to
buy dim-sum bonds but they simply cannot because they have no way of
accepting/rejecting RMB

7) Everyone needs
7a) A way of reducing AML/KYC costs.  Once the holder of one
wallet has been identified, then law enforcement can trace the
transactions through that wallet.  It is therefore unnecessary to
perform AML/KYC on all accounts  You merely need to 

What is the technology?

1) OKLink has done this with the OKDollar a token that is pegging
to the USD.  Access to the OKDollar is limited to companies on
the OKLink network which is restricted to institutions that are
licensed to send/receive money

2) Tether has also has created a USD token

Why HKD is better than USD:

1) Deposits to the Tether token has been shut down because the
bank involved is located in Taiwan and the international
correspondent banks have shut down wire transfers to the tether
account.  Deposits can only be made through local Taiwan banks,
and Taiwan is not enough of a banking center for overseas
companies to get bank accounts.

1a) The HKD token need only be redeemable for fiat in HK.  In
order to on-board or off-board fiat you need to do that in HK
through local bank transfer, and other people will be able to hit
it through

2) Tether and OKLink can't talk directly to the FBI, the Federal
Reserve, and the SEC.  An HK company that creates a HKD token can
talk directly to HK Police, the HKMA, and the SFC.

The killer coin - CNHX coin

1) Internationalize the RMB!!!!!
2) Create RMB denominated products!!!!!  If someone in Peoria,
Illinois or Johannesburg, South Africa wants to buy a dim-sum bond,
they now can!!!!

------------------

Implementation:

Central bank model.  

Create a company limited by guarantee with a set of members:

1) Members will be required to post a minimum deposit and pay a
monthly membership fee.

2) Only members will be able to exchange HKD or CNH directly with the
central foundation.  The fiat currency exchanged for tokens will be
subject to a minimum amount

3) The fact that you have a small number of members which can only do
large infrequent transactions makes this easier to sell to bank
compliance

Types of members:

1) Initial members will include all of the major bitcoin exchanges in
Hong Kong, since they will be responsible for circulating the coin to
the general public
2) Hedge funds and VC funds that want to make token exchanges directly
with the foundation
3) Money services companies that can now use the tokens to exchange
directly with cash

Member elect a board which appoints staff:

The people who are necessary

1) legal/compliance
2) technical
3) business development
4) marketing/social media expert

