DRAFT

Yoyodyne Space Products Ltd., a Hong Kong company and _________, a
Delaware corporation have entered and/or anticipate entering into one
or more transactions (each a “Transaction”) that are or will be
governed by this agreement, which includes the ISDA Master Agreement
("ISDA Master Agreement"), the schedule (the “Schedule”), and the
documents and other confirming evidence (each a “Confirmation”)
exchanged between the parties confirming those Transactions.

The Parties hereby agree to be bound by the terms of the 2002 Master
Agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association, the contents of which are incorporated in full into this
agreement.

For reference purposes, a non-authoritative Chinese translation of the
2002 Master Agreement is available at .  The Chinese transation is for
reference only, and the English version of the Master Agreement is
legally binding.

For the purpose of Transactions, Parties agree to use the 2011 Equity
Derivative Definitions published by the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association.

Schedule

Part 1. 

"Party A" established as a Hong Kong Company with company number ****
under the laws of *****.

"Party B" a natural person.

Part 2. Tax Representations

(a) Payer Representations: For the purpose of Section 3(e) of this
Agreement, Party A and Party B do not make any representations.

(b) Payee Representations: For the purpose of Section 3(f) of this
Agreement, Party A and Party B do not make any representations.

Part 3. Agreement to Deliver Documents.

For the purpose of Sections 4(a)(i) and 4(a)(ii) of this Agreement,
each party agrees to deliver the following documents, as applicable:

(a) Tax forms, documents or certificates to be delivered are none.

(b) Other documents to be delivered are none.

Part 4. Miscellaneous

(a) Address for Notices.  For the purpose of Section 12(a) of this
Agreement:

Address for notices or communications to Party A:

Address:
Attention:
Telex No:
Answerback:
Facsimile No:
Telephone No:
E-mail:
Electronic Messaging System Details:
Specific Instructions:

Address for notices or communications to Party B:

Address:
Attention:
Telex No:
Answerback:
Facsimile No:
Telephone No:
E-mail:
Electronic Messaging System Details:
Specific Instructions:

b) Process Agent. For the purpose of Section 13(c) of this Agreement

Party A appoints as its Process Agent: non applicable
Party B appoints as its Process Agent: non applicable

c) The provisions of Section 10(a) will not apply to this Agreement

d) For the purpose of Section 10(b) of this Agreement:

Party A is not a multibranch Party.
Party B is not a multibranch Party.

e) The Calculation Agent is .....

f) Credit Support Dcoument: Details of any Credit Support Document:
none

g) Credit Support Provider: Credit Support Provider means in relation
to Party A, none.  Credit Support Provider means in relation to Party
B, none.

h) Governing Law. This Agreement will be governed by and construed in
accordance with the law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative
Region, China.

i) Netting of Payments. "Multiple Transaction Payment Netting" will
apply for the purpose of Section 2(c) of this Agreement to all
Transaction.

j) "Affilate" will have the meaning specified in Section 14 of this
Agreement.

k) Absence of Litigation: For the purpose of Section 3(c)
'Specified Entity" means in relation to Party A, no one
"Specified Enitty" means in relation to Party B, no one

l) No Agency.  The provisions of Section 3(g) will not apply to this
Agreement

m) Additional representations will not apply.



