Bitquant Research Laboratories
HONG KONG

DFS Office of General Counsel
Dana V. Syracuse
New York State Department of Financial Services
One State Street
New York, NY 10004

Office of the Attorney General
Division of Appeals & Opinions
The Capitol
Albany, NY 12224-0341

Office of the Attorney General
Investor Protection Bureau
The State Capitol
Albany, New York 12224

Greetings:

On 23 July 2014, the New York Department of Financial Services
("NYDFS") issued a request for comment on proposed rule-making
regarding virtual currencies.  We are writing this letter in response
to this request for comment.  As our response involves issues
concerning the legal authority of the NYDFS to issue such regulations,
as well as recommendations concerning the use of the Martin Act, we
have also forward our comments to both the Division of Appeals and
Opinions as well as the Investor Protection Bureau within the office
of the Attorney General.

Our company, Bitquant Research Laboratories (Asia) Ltd. is a Hong Kong
based company which provides open source analytics and quantitative
consulting services to financial institutions regarding products and
services surrounding cryptocurrencies.  Although we have no current
business operations in the state of New York, we share the goals of
the NYDFS in creating a well regulated and vibrant industry
surrounding virtual currencies, and we welcome the Department's
efforts to solicit opinions in this matter.

We believe that the state of New York has a legitimate interest in
protecting the residents of the state of New York from both consumer
fraud and illicit use of virtual currencies to further illegal
activities such as money laundering, and we are very interested in
creating a proper regulatory system for the use of virtual
currencies. 

It is therefore of great regret that we find that NYDFS proposal is on
extremely weak legal foundations.  It is not merely the details of the
proposal that are problematic, but the entire regulatory approach of
extending a discretionary licensing system suitable for money
transmission businesses to any business handling virtual currency.
Not only is creating such a licensing system not in the public
interest, we firmly believe that it exceeds the authority of the NYDFS
under both New York state and federal law, and would not survive a
legal challenge in either federal or New York state court.

We assert and we believe that both state and federal courts would
agree with us, that the regulatory system that NYDFS has created for
money transmission businesses arises from a special grant of authority
under both federal law and state law.  These grants of authority
simply do not exist for businesses which are not money transmission
businesses, and therefore, as a matter of law, the NYDFS cannot use a
discretionary licensing system to regulate virtual currency businesses
which are not money transmission businesses.

In order to resolve these legal issues, we respectfully recommend the
following three-pronged approach:

1) That the proposed regulations be made applicable *only* to
businesses that under New York state and federal law are currently
subject to discretionary licensing by the NYDFS,

2) That for the purpose of consumer protection, that the main
regulatory mechanism should be aggressive use of the Martin Act by the
Attorney-General of the state of New York,

3) That for the purpose of anti-money laundering that the main
regulatory mechanism should be the Bank Secrecy Act and the
registration requirements and regulations issued by the United States
Department of Treasury through FinCEN.

We shall now present our legal arguments in detail.

TREATING ALL VIRTUAL CURRENCY BUSINESSES AS MONEY TRANSMITTERS
CONFLICTS WITH THE DORMANT COMMERCE CLAUSE

NYDFS proposes taking a discretionary licensing system which is
similar to that of money transmitters and apply it to all businesses
using virtual currency.  Under New York state law, the authority to
regulate money transmitters arises from Article 13-B of the New York
state Banking Law and Section 301 of the Financial Services Law.  The
powers of the state of New York must be exercised in a manner that is
consistent with the United States Constitution which places the
exclusive authority to regulate interstate commerce in the hands of
the federal government.  In order to avoid conflict between the New
York state law and federal law, section 104(a)(2) of the Financial
Services law specifically excludes from regulation by the NYDFS
products and services where "where rules or regulations promulgated by
the superintendent on such financial product or service would be
preempted by federal law."

With respect to discretionary licensing of money transmitters there is
no conflict between state and federal laws.  In 18 USC 1960, Congress
has specifically made operating a money transmission business without
a license in violation of state law a federal crime.  This expresses a
clear intention by Congress that a special licensing system is
necessary to combat money laundering, and given that Congress has
expressed a clear intention that states have the power to institute
licensing requirements for money transmitters, there is no conflict
between the powers of NYDFS and Federal law (see Western & Southern
Life Ins. v. State Board of California, 451 U.S. 648 (1981)), and
therefore the commerce clause does not limit the authority of NYDFS to
require licensing of money transmitters under New York state law
regardless of the impact on interstate commerce.

However, it is critical to note that this regulatory system of state
licensing of out-of-state money transmitters can be legally justified
*only* because Congress has expressed a clear intention to allow
states to license money transmitters in 18 USC 1960.  With respect to
virtual currency businesses which are *not* money transmitters,
Congress has not expressed such an intention, and therefore the rules
under the "dormant commerce clause" apply, and there are severe
restrictions on the ability of a state to issue regulations which
impact interstate commerce.

One could attempt to argue that all virtual currency businesses are
money transmission businesses and therefore argue that they all fall
under this Congressional authorization.  However this argument simply
will not work, as the United States FinCEN has issued rules that
specifically and explicitly state that some businesses which the NYDFS
regulation defines as "virtual currency businesses" are specifically
not "money transmitters" and are exempt from the licensing and
registration requirements of 18 USC 1960.  FIN-2013-G001 issued by
FinCEN on 18 March 2013, for example provides detailed guidance as to
when a transaction is considered a "money transmission" and excludes a
number of situations such if a broker or dealer accepts and transmits
funds solely for effecting a purchase or sale of real currency or
other commodities.  FIN-2014-R001 and FIN-2014-R002 issued on 30
January 2014 clarified that bitcoin miners, software developers, and
investment pools would are not money services businesses or money
transmitters.

One could then attempt to argue that FIN-2013-G001, FIN-2014-R001, and
FIN-2014-R002 applies only to the definition of money transmitter
under the Bank Secrecy Act and that a state could take a different
definition of money transmitter.  However, this argument is not
viable.  18 USC 1960 refers to the registration requirements of 31 USC
5330 which is part of the Bank Secrecy Act, and hence a finding by
FinCEN that a business is not a money transmitter removes it from the
scope of 18 USC 1960.  If a state attempts to define money transmitter
in a way that is different from the FinCEN regulations, this would
place those businesses outside of Congressional authorization for
state licensing in 18 USC 1960, and the "dormant commerce clause"
would become active.

Given that an agency of th federal government has determined that
there are virtual currency businesses which are outside of the scope
of the state licensing system authorized by Congress in 18 USC 1960,
we must now perform a "dormant commerce clause" analysis to determine
if the proposed regulations are consistent with federal law with
respect to those businesses.  It is are firm belief that a court would
find that the proposed regulations are inconsistent with the dormant
commerce clause and invalidate the regulations on constitutional
grounds.

Under the federal system of the United States, the power to regulate
commerce between the states as well as commerce with foreign nations
is an exclusive power of the United States federal government.  Under
the principle of the "dormant commerce clause", where Congress has
chosen not to act, states are limited in their authority to propose
restrictions on interstate commerce.  This division of power is
settled law and has been reflected in a long line of courts cases
beginning with Gibbons v. Ogden, 22 U.S. 1 (1824) and extending
through Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific Railway Company v. Illinois, 118
U.S. 557 (1886).

The current law regarding the dormant commerce clause first involves a
test to see if the proposed state action is discriminative toward
businesses outside of the state.  If it is then would be reviewed
under the tests of Hunt v. Washington State Apple Advertising
Commission, 432 U.S. 333 (1977), in which strict scrutiny will be
applied and the regulation will only be allowed if there is no less
restrictive method of insuring that the regulation advances a state
interest.

If the proposed state action is not discriminative, then the standard
used would be Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc. 397 U.S. 137 (1970).  Under
this standard a restriction on interstate commerce would be found to
be in violation of the dormant commerce clause if the burdens on
commerce are clearly in excess of the local legitimate state interests
advanced.  Significantly, the Supreme Court has ruled that federal
courts must review whether in fact the regulation will advance the
stated purposes of the regulation ( see Raymond Motor Transportation,
Inc. v. Rice, 434 U.S. 429 (1978) and Kassel v. Consolidated
Freightways Corp. 450 US 662 (1981)).  

In contrast to regulations which do not effect interstate commerce, it
is insufficient to merely state a "rational basis" for a regulation,
but rather it is necessary to demonstrate that the regulations do in
fact promote legitimate state interests.  Where an regulation affects
interstate commerce, it is insufficient to rely on vague and hypothetical
arguments as how the proposal might advance state interests, a state
must provide solid evidence that the regulation does in fact promote
state interests and that these interests outweigh the burden to
interstate commerce.

We assert that the regulations proposed by the NYDFS in their current
form are so clearly in conflict with the dormant commerce clause that
should the NYDFS attempt to enforce these regulations against any
businesses outside of the state of New York which are not currently
subject to licensing, they they will be almost immediately be
challenged in federal court where they would be struck down.

These regulations are clearly discriminative against out-of-state
virtual currency businesses.  The requirement that any one doing
business with non-US entities conduct enhanced due-diligence is
clearly discriminative on its face for entities outside of the United
States.  In addition, a business that is an another country or another
state, would find it inconvenient and burdensome to interact with
officials within the state of New York, and would difficult or
impossible to, for example, attend a licensing hearing in person or
challenge an administrative decision in state court.  In such a
situation, the federal courts will apply strict scrutiny and will only
allow the regulation if it can be shown that no other regulatory
system will work.

While consumer protection and prevention of money laundering is
clearly a legitimate state interest, we do not believe that the state
of New York can demonstrate in court that no other system of
regulation will advance these interests, particularly given the
determination by FinCEN that some businesses that would be covered
under New York state licensing do not require Federal registration as
money service businesses.  We note here that the federal government
created alternative systems for prevention of money laundering
including registration of money service businesses and mandatory
reporting of suspicious activity.  In cases, where a virtual currency
business is subject to a less restrictive federal requirement, it
would be extremely difficult to provide a convincing argument that the
NYDFS state regulations are the least restrictive necessary.

With respect to consumer fraud, the state of New York can use consumer
fraud statutes against those that seek to defraud the residents of the
state of New York, and there is absolutely no evidence that simply
using existing laws on consumer protection will not achieve the
interest in consumer protection.

With regard to prevention of money laundering, the regulations
proposed by NYDFS including businesses that the federal government
through FinCEN has explicitly concluded should *not* be regulated as
money transmission businesses.  In addition, while virtual currencies
have been used for illicit purposes, federal agencies have been
extremely aggressive and successful at closing down such activities,
and there has been no suggestion that an intrusive and extensive use
of licensing would prevent money laundering.  

Finally if these regulations are enacted, a federal judge will ask the
state of New York why it is necessary to impose restrictive licensing
on virtual currencies and coins, when no such restrictive licensing
exists for physical currency and coins.  Yes, virtual currencies can
be used for illicit purposes but so can physical currency and coins.
As the state of New York has not imposed mandatory licensing for gold
coin dealers or currency exchangers when not involved in money
transmission, a federal judge will ask NYDFS why these are necessary
for virtual coin and virtual currency.

Even if the regulation were non-discriminative, they would impose
massive and unreasonable burdens on interstate and international
commerce.  Because no rationale has been advanced as to how these
regulations would in fact protect consumers or prevent money
laundering, we believe that non-discriminative regulations would be
found to be overly and unnecessarily intrusive for the same reasons
that discriminative regulations would be found to be problematic.

Again, we wish to emphasize here that the federal courts would not
merely subject the regulations to a "rational basis" standard in which
the state of New York could advance a speculative reason why these
regulations would advance consumer protection or prevent money
laundering, but would subject the regulations to further scrutiny and
a "Pike balancing test" in which the state of New York would be
compelled to explain how these regulations, in fact, advance consumer
protection or prevent money laundering and whether the real benefits
provided by the regulation outweigh the substantial burdens imposed on
interstate commerce.

Therefore, the question of what makes it necessary to impose licensing
regulations on virtual currency and coins that simply do not exist
with physical currency and coin is not a hypothetical or abstract
question.  It is one that a federal judge will ask the state of New
York in federal court, and which NYDFS must be prepared to answer.

We do not believe that the state of New York could demonstrate this in
federal court, and therefore we believe that it would be tremendous
mistake and waste of resources to use the current regulatory approach.

IT IS QUESTIONABLE WHETHER VIRTUAL CURRENCIES ARE INDEED A FINANCIAL
PRODUCT OR SERVICE

There are additional legal difficulties in this proposal under New
York State law.  These difficulties are signficant because they would
impact regulation of virtual currency businesses which are situated
within the state of New York and which interstate considerations do
not apply.

First of all, it is very unclear whether virtual currencies are in
fact "financial products or services."  Virtual currencies can be used
to store and transmit monetary value, but so can postage stamps, gold
coin, or bales of cotton.  We believe that there is strong question as
to whether or not classify virtual currencies can be classified as
financial products and services, and whether NYDFS has any more
authority to require licensing of virtual currency dealers than it
does to require licensing of dealers of physical gold coin or physical
currency exchange dealers where there is no money transmission
involved.

We very strongly urge that the NYDFS clarify on what basis it
considers virtual currencies to be a "financial product or service"
and why it feels that it has both the legal authority and the public
interest reasons why it is necessary to impose special licensing on
virtual currency, when no such regulations exist for physical coins or
currency.  As with the similar questions concerning the "dormant
commerce clause" these are not abstract or hypothetical questions, as
if the NYDFS does not clarify the legal basis and public interest
rationale for these particular regulations now, it will be forced to
do so when they are challenged in state court.

Even if one were to concede that virtual currencies are a "financial
product or service" there remain severe problems with the proposed
licensing system under New York state law.

THE NYDFS DOES NOT HAVE AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE LICENSING OF BUSINESSES
SUBJECT TO THE MARTIN ACT

The NYDFS does not have authority over products "regulated for the
purpose of consumer or investor protection by any other state agency,
state department or state public authority".  This is defined in the
section 2-A which states

  (2-a) A "financial product or service regulated for the purpose of
  consumer or investor protection": (A) shall include (i) any product
  or service for which registration or licensing is required or for
  which the offeror or provider is required to be registered or
  licensed by state law, (ii) any product or service as to which
  provisions for consumer or investor protection are specifically set
  forth for such product or service by state statute or regulation and
  (iii) securities, commodities and real property subject to the
  provisions of article twenty-three-a of the general business law,
  and (B) shall not include products or services solely subject to
  other general laws or regulations for the protection of consumers or
  investors.

This section excludes securities, commodities, and real property which
are subject to the Martin Act from regulation by the NYDFS and places
them under the jurisdiction of the Attorney-General.  The Martin Act
is primarily an anti-fraud statute that gives the Attorney-General
extensive powers to combat securities and commodities fraud, but does
not impose any licensing requirements on the sales of securities and
commodities.  As cryptocurrencies are considered by many jurisdictions
and agencies such as the Internal Revenue Service to be a "virtual
commodity," we believe that it is clear that under New York state law,
the primary enforcement mechanism against fraud belongs to the
Attorney General, and that the NYDFS does not have the legislative
authority to impose licensing requirements on virtual currency
businesses where those businesses are not involved in money
transmission as defined by FinCEN.

THE NYDFS DOES NOT HAVE AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE LICENSING OF NON-CONSUMER
BUSINESSES 

There is yet an addition problem with the proposed regulations.

Under Section 104 of the Financial Services Law, the financial
products and services which are subject to regulation by the
superintendent include

  (2) "Financial product or service" shall mean: (A) any financial
  product or financial service offered or provided by any person
  regulated or required to be regulated by the superintendent pursuant
  to the banking law or the insurance law or any financial product or
  service offered or sold to consumers except financial products or
  services: (i) regulated under the exclusive jurisdiction of a
  federal agency or authority, (ii) regulated for the purpose of
  consumer or investor protection by any other state agency, state
  department or state public authority, or (iii) where rules or
  regulations promulgated by the superintendent on such financial
  product or service would be preempted by federal law; and

Financial products and services that are not offered or sold to
consumers are not subject to regulation by the NYDFS and therefore the
NYDFS has no power to compel licensing of a business where there is no
pre-existing law which allows for such licensing.

LICENSING SHOULD ONLY APPLY TO BUSINESSES SUCH AS MONEY TRANSMITTERS,
WHICH ARE ALREADY UNDER NYDFS JURISDICTION.  FOR OTHER BUSINESSES THE
PRIMARY MECHANISM FOR INVESTOR AND CONSUMER PROTECTION SHOULD BE THE
NEW YORK STATE MARTIN ACT AND THE PRIMARY MECHANISM FOR ANTI-MONEY
LAUNDERING SHOULD BE THE FEDERAL BANK SECRECY ACT

It is our view that under New York state law and United States federal
law, a general licensing system for virtual currency businesses is
unworkable.  At the very least to propose a regulatory structure which
is similar to the one that has already been advanced would require the
NYDFS to justify the legal basis of the regulations and the public
interest rationale for the regulations far more extensively than they
have done so far.

We believe that it would be a waste of time and effort to introduce
regulations of such weak legal foundation only to have them be
overturned later.  Such a path would not only subject virtual currency
businesses to legal uncertainty, but would also be detrimental to the
shared goal of consumer protection and money laundering prevention.

To the extent that new regulation is needed for businesses that are
already subject to licensing, such as money transmitters, we believe
that the proposed regulations add administrative clarity, and we do
not object to the proposed regulations provided that they are limited
to businesses which are already under the administrative jurisdiction
of the NYDFS.

We therefore recommend the following:

1) We strongly recommend that Section 200.3(a) of the proposed virtual
currency regulations be amended to read

  No Person may in the course of performing a transaction subject to
  regulation by this agency under the laws of the state of New York
  shall without a license obtained from the superintendent as provided
  in this Part, engage in any Virtual Currency Business Activity.

The effect of this change would be to empower businesses which are
already under NYDFS regulation to undertake virtual currency
activities, while not extending NYDFS authority to businesses which
are not subject to NYDFS authority under either state or federal law.

2) We strongly recommend that the NYDFS abandon discretionary
licensing as the primary regulation mechanism for virtual currency
businesses which are not subject to regulation as money transmitters,
and instead work with the Attorney General to improve investor
education and aggressively combat fraud using the Martin Act.  In
cases where there is suspected money laundering and illegal activity,
we believe that the best approach is to work with the federal
government and agencies such as FinCEN to develop a single national
standard.

An aggressive anti-fraud program under the Martin Act imposes no few
regulatory burdens on most virtual currency businesses outside of the
state of New York while advancing a legitimate state interest of
consumer protection, and unlike the licensing system proposed is
consistent with the "dormant commerce clause."  In addition, it is
consistent with New York state law and provides both legal certainty
and soundness for virtual currency regulation.

3) With respect to anti-money laundering, virtual currency businesses
doing business with or in the United States are already required to
comply with the terms of the Bank Secrecy Act and associated money
laundering provisions.  We do not see the need to add any further
restrictions on the use of virtual currencies.  Where such
restrictions are found to be necessary, they should be initiated at
the federal level.

We believe that the wisest course of actions to use existing
regulations and laws rather than create new ones.  To focus efforts at
the federal law would result in the manageable burden of dealing with
one set of standards rather than 51 conflicting ones.  In addition,
both the Bank Secrecy Act and the Martin Act are decades old and have
been subject to numerous court challenges so that their legal validity
is not under question, unlike any completely new regulatory system.

We believe that most virtual currency businesses are honest and
well-meaning people who share the goal of regulators in creating a
vibrant and sound system of virtual currency.  We also believe that
regulatory activities should be focused on eliminated and punishing
bad actors which seek to defraud or commit illegal activities against
residents of the state of New York.  Accordingly we believe that the
proper regulatory mechanism is not through a licensing mechanism which
imposes burdens on the honest, but through criminal and civil fraud
sanctions which impose burdens on the dishonest, and to not to create
new regulatory mechanisms but to use existing ones.

Although we believe the current approach taken by the NYDFS is legally
unworkable, we believe that we share common goals with the state of
New York.  We hope that our comments are taken seriously and look
forward to cooperating with state of New York in any way possible.

Sincerely,



Joseph Chen-Yu Wang
Chief Scientist
Bitquant Research Laboratories (Asia) Ltd.


